Name: Rava Uttapam Recipe | Suji Uttapam (Instant Veg Uttapam)
Tamil Name: ரவா உத்தப்பம் (Rava Uttapam)
Category: breakfast
Sub Category: tiffin
Diet: vegetarian
Difficulty: 
Prep Time: 30 minutes
Cook Time: 15 minutes
Servings: 2

Description:
Rava Uttapam is an easy, quick and tasty breakfast dish made with rava (suji or cream of wheat). Instant Rava Uttapam is a quick variant unlike the time intensive and fermented variation of the traditional Uttapam recipe made with a lentil and rice fermented batter or Idli Batter. This easy recipe is ready in 45 minutes start-to-finish. You don’t need to grind any ingredients – just chop the vegetables, mix the rava and water, soak for 20 to 30 minutes and then start making these.

Ingredients:
- ½ cup fine variety of rava (sooji or semolina) or 100 grams (rava is not roasted)
- ½ cup water
- 3 teaspoon lemon juice
- ¼ teaspoon baking soda or ⅛ teaspoon eno or fruit salt
- salt as per taste
- oil or ghee for greasing the pan and drizzling
Optional:
- 1 small onion – chopped or 5 to 6 pearl onions, thinly sliced
- 1 small tomato – chopped
- 1 green chili – finely chopped

Steps:
1. Take ½ cup of fine variety of rava (semolina) in a bowl. Do note that the rava to be added is not roasted rava.
2. Add ½ cup water.
3. Mix well and keep the batter to rest for 20 to 30 minutes. You can even keep the batter for an hour.
4. Meanwhile when the batter is resting, you can slice or chop the onions or shallots, tomatoes and green chilies.
5. Mix the chopped veggies and keep them aside.
6. After 20 to 30 minutes, stir the batter again. By now the rava will absorb water and the batter will thicken. If the batter looks thin, then just add a few tablespoons of rava. If very thick, then add a few tablespoons of water.
7. Then add 3 teaspoon of lemon juice.
8. Season with salt.
9. Stir and mix very well.
10. Next add ¼ teaspoon baking soda or ⅛ teaspoon eno (fruit salt).
11. Stir and again mix very well.
12. Heat a tawa or griddle and spread some oil.
13. Take the batter in a large serving spoon.
14. Pour the batter and spread it gently. Don’t spread too much.
15. When the batter is still raw on the top, quickly add the onions-tomatoes-green chillies mix.
16. Gently press with a spatula so that the onions and tomatoes stick to the batter. drizzle some oil on the sides and the top.
17. When the base is cooked and lightly browned, flip gently. Cook till the onions and tomatoes are light golden or golden.
18. Flip and serve the mix veg uttapam hot.

Tips:
- If making for kids then skip or reduce green chilies.
- You can also add chopped coriander leaves, mint leaves and ginger.
- Mix grated veggies like carrots, beetroots and finely shredded cabbage or finely chopped capsicum can also be added.
- You can also add grated cheese or paneer in the toppings.
- This recipe can be doubled or tripled to make a big batch.
- The rava to be added is not roasted rava.

Variations:
- Add grated carrots, beetroot, capsicum, coriander leaves etc.

Commonly served with:
coconut chutney, coriander chutney, tomato ketchup

Tags:
rava uttapam, suji uttapam, instant uttapam, sooji uttapam, south indian breakfast